Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So again, good morning church.
I wanna just let you know how
excited I am to move into this next phase.
And I want to start this next series, sub series, if you will, of we are.
We have gone through kind of the doctrine and the deeper spiritual things, but I want to start out with a little story.
A man was coming out of church one day
And as usual, the pastor was standing at the door ready to shake hands as I do for many of you right over here at this door every Sunday.
The pastor grabbed the man's hand and pulled him aside, and he said, you need to join the army of the Lord.
The man replied, preacher, I'm already in the army of the Lord.
The pastor quickly asked, how come I don't see you except at Christmas and Easter?
The man whispered back gently,
I'm in the Secret Service.
He still only comes at Christmas and Easter.
He thinks that that's sufficient.
And while maybe we might chuckle at this, it kind of sets the tone for our time together today and over the next few weeks when we're going to start talking about church membership.
If you'll take care of slides for me this time, I would appreciate it.
We're gonna turn a big corner today from our series on these deeper messages on doctrine and we're gonna turn to a little bit lighter of a subject.
We dove into sanctification and we dove into, in times, eschatology and we dove into salvation and we dove into all kinds of other deep topics.
And if you're like me, they just,
You try to understand all of it and it just makes your mind hurt.
And so today and over the next few weeks, we're gonna kind of go into something a little bit lighter when we, a little lighter subject, a little more practical, if you will.
So the sermons through this series of about six messages are gonna be a little different, a little lighter, and a little more kind of informational slash teaching.
And so here's what I wanna do.
When we talk about we are,
We are believers in Christ individually, amen?
So there's each of us are our own different stages at different walks, at different developmental places within our spiritual journey.
Now, we are believers who are individual, but we gather together in like-mind faith in our A.G. Church, so we are A.G.
But then there's another layer to this.
Not only
do we gather in like faith, but we join together in like faith and become members of this assembly of God church at the corner of Compton and Russell.
We become church members that make up Berea Temple completely what we call Berea Temple Assembly of God doing business as Berea Temple International Church.
Okay, but that's who we are.
We are Berea Temple Assembly of God.
And so we are gonna spend the next few weeks together on the topic of church membership.
Membership in a local church is crucial for every believer.
It's not just a social affiliation, but it's a commitment to serve and to grow in our faith.
Now we'll talk about it more later, but there are being a member of a church
is different than being a member of, say, a social organization.
Many of you might be members of Kiwanas or the Rotary Club.
You might be a member of a country club, a golf course club, something of that nature, something that you unite and you pay dues to, and you lay out money every year, to be part of that community of similarly-minded people.
Okay, those are country club or social clubs.
Church isn't a social club.
Church isn't a place where we come just for social.
We come to place our commitment and to serve and to grow in our faith.
That's why we belong to a church.
So this morning specifically,
We're going to explore what it means to be a functioning church member.
We're going to look at how each of us is a necessary part of the whole, how we work together despite our differences and how love must be our foundation.
And finally, how true church membership is all about giving
and serving.
So again, this one's a little more practical.
So if you're a note taker, this one will be a little bit more note heavy or something of that nature if you like that kind of a thing.
So here's what I want to do.
The first thing I want us to look at is membership, being a member of a church.
There's some things that it means.
And the first thing that it means is that we're all necessary parts of the whole.
We're all necessary parts of the whole.
Imagine a car
Missing its steering wheel.
Brother Prince, could you go very far in your car if you didn't have steering wheel?
One of the guys who just got their license, you think it's important to have that big wheel on the front, which you can kind of steer with.
Remember, 10 and 2, not down here.
If mom and dad catch you down here, they're going to tell me, and I'm going to, no, I'm kidding.
That's dangerous.
I'll pick on you again, Brother Prince.
What would happen if I walked back there and pulled the CPU out of the computer?
Computer wouldn't work, would it?
It's the little brain.
It's that little square.
For those that don't know, the CPU is actually a little chip inside the big box.
Everybody calls the big box the CPU.
That's not it.
That's the computer.
It's what holds all the parts and pieces.
But if I pulled that out, that computer wouldn't work.
If I pulled the processor out of your phone, most of you would absolutely go berserk because you wouldn't know what to do without your telephone at your side.
No, that's just me.
But things wouldn't function right.
Things wouldn't work the way that they were designed to work.
Similarly, the body of Christ doesn't function as it should if it's missing a key part.
There used to be, and we have a letter board out,
Okay, so we have signs that we change out on our church sign, and sometimes there's funny little sayings that people will put out there, and they'll put out the word church, and they'll leave out the middle two letters, and they'll say, what's missing?
Anybody know?
Spell out church, come on.
C-H-U-R-C-H.
So what's missing if we pull out the two middle letters?
U.
You are.
You're missing.
And that is what we have.
When we have the body of Christ, when we don't have a complete whole body is when we're missing you, your involvement.
And that missing key part could be you.
As we've said before, we have an organizational chart that, for our church, a plan for how we would like to grow and see our church develop.
And there are parts, there are all kinds of spots that are in gray.
Those are the
unfilled, empty, vacant spots where people could be serving, plus all of the other things that we haven't even started yet that could be happening within the church if only we had people plugged in to the right places.
Now, lest you think I'm going to just talk about this without any biblical support, I want you to turn with your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 4 and verses 16.
Now Paul writes in the entirety of that passage, so context, that every member is essential for the church to be built up and to grow everybody.
Now we're not gonna read the whole thing, but look specifically at what he says in verse 16.
He says he makes the whole body fit together perfectly.
As each part does its own special work, it helps the other parts grow so that the whole body is healthy and growing and full of love.
This means that for our church to thrive, everyone needs to be using our gifts.
Everybody has some gift.
Your gift might be using a commode brush and keeping it clean every Saturday morning that many of the folks come and do.
Or your gift might be singing like an angel and leading us in worship.
Running a vacuum cleaner, splitting wood, running a mower.
The list goes on and on and on.
You get the idea.
But why might churches struggle to grow?
It is said that in our churches after COVID, that about half of our churches, no, I'm sorry.
Yeah, a little more than half of our churches did not bounce back to their original attendance.
They were lost by about 50%.
So if a church averaged 300, they're running somewhere around 140, 150 post-COVID.
And all those other 150 or so people have never returned back to church.
And so church growth is an important thing.
Seeing our church continue to grow, to see visitors come, to see people engaged in the life of the church.
And one of the reasons that churches struggle to grow is that not all of the members are actively using their gifts.
I can tell you here at Berea Temple, we have about four people who greet on Sunday.
And it's the same for people and they do a great job.
They have great smiles.
They have great energy.
But what about your smile, your energy?
What about your participation?
Now, Tom Rayner in his book, I am a church member, which this series is based around will be, and we will share several quotes from, tell us this.
He says that God did not give us local churches to become country clubs where membership means we have privileges and perks.
He placed us in churches to serve, to care for others, to pray for leaders, to learn, to teach, to give, and in some cases to die for the sake of the gospel.
Praise the Lord in the U.S., we don't have too much of that last one.
But it is what it is.
I have zeroed out that there will come a day in the US that we will be asked to renounce our faith or perish.
There's a little girl back in the 90s, I was in Bible college.
And I think most of you know the story, but I'm going to relate it anyway.
She went to school, high school one day, just like every other day, just like every one of you go to today.
And at the very first school shooting that happened publicly in the US, two fellow students walked into the school, put a gun to Cassie's head, and said, do you still believe?
She said yes.
She closed her eyes and met Jesus.
For no other reason, nothing more than she would not renounce the fact that she
love Jesus.
She knew who she was and whose she was.
And for every one of us, we are called to something within the body of Christ.
For Cassie, it was to be a light and salt and then ultimately to pay the ultimate price as a witness to the rest of us who have the privilege still to this day, to live and to go and to worship freely without the threat of a gun in our face.
but to be the reminder that it could have been any one of us at any time.
So I want as we move through this specific point that it takes all of us, it takes all of us to be a necessary part of the whole.
I wanna leave you with a couple of questions.
How do you view your membership at this church?
No hands, just I just want you to ponder this.
And this really isn't, there's no profound answer.
I'm not giving you the answer.
I just want you to think through it.
How do you view your membership at this church?
Do you focus on the benefits you receive or do you think about how you can serve?
Because if we're focused on the benefits, if we're focused on what we get out, man, I go to that church and I don't get anything out of it.
You know, I just,
I wish the preacher was this or that.
I wish the people that sat next to me, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Then I would encourage you to consider that maybe you have a country club view of church.
And you're looking to see what you can get out of church rather than what you can give to church.
Because when we come here, this is training ground.
This isn't the place to sit, this isn't the mess hall just to get fed.
Although that's part of it,
This is the training ground.
This is where we come and learn to hone our skills, to use our gifts, to express the love of Christ to those who walk in on a regular basis.
But if you think about how you can serve, if your first thought is, I need to pick up that piece of paper that got missed by somebody.
I need to sweep off the front porch.
I need to make sure that the sprinklers are working.
I need to go and make sure that the bathroom is functional.
then I would say you have a proper view of what it is to be a part of the body of Christ.
Because janitor isn't just a paid position, that's all of our job.
Landscaper, Sunday school teacher, youth worker, children's helper, men's leader, women's leader, those are all parts that all of us are called to do.
Number two, membership means that we're different, but we still work together.
So we're all part of the whole unity, but we're different and still work together.
One of the beautiful aspects of the body of Christ is diversity.
This is talked about a lot in our society right now, but we're not just talking about cultural or skin color or ethnic background or religious background,
We're talking about the diversity of gifts.
We all have different gifts and every gift is essential.
Listen, there are gifts the Lord has given me that He's not given you.
The thought to stand up here in front of even five people week after week would terrify some people.
They can't even imagine public speaking.
But there are gifts that I don't have.
The Lord has not blessed me with.
And I know them, but I know for a fact these blessed some of you with it because we've seen them evidenced within the church.
And it takes all of us to be part of what God is doing at this church.
I want you to picture with me, we've all watched medical shows, yeah, and some of you are in the medical field.
Think about a body laid out, okay, and you're having to make sure that all the parts and pieces are there.
That is the body of Christ that Jesus has placed, that the Lord has placed at the corner of Compton and Russell.
There is a body here.
And there is a torso, and there are legs, and there are arms, and there are head, and there's a mouthpiece, and there's eyes, and ears, and nose, and throat, and all of the parts and pieces.
The question is, this body cannot get up and be active and alive until
all the parts are there.
Could you imagine those who work in the medical field if somebody was in surgery and then all of a sudden got up off the table and their heart's still sitting in the pan over on the side table?
Or they get up and they start walking when after an amputation.
It typically, unless the Lord creates a miracle, doesn't happen.
and it can't happen at Berea Temple.
It can't happen here if all of the parts are not in place where they need to be.
It can't happen if some of the parts are gangrenous.
If some of the parts have already died and fallen off, the body of Christ here, let's move it away from Berea Temple.
the body of Christ at the church down the street, or the church down the street, or the one over here and down the way.
They cannot function if the body is not put together as a whole.
We all have different gifts, but every gift is essential.
Paul emphasizes this in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verses one to 26, and we're gonna look specifically at verse 12.
He explains that each of us has been given spiritual gifts by the Holy Spirit.
Not for our own benefit,
but to build up the church.
So 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 12, it says, the human body has many parts, but the many parts make up one, excuse me, one whole body.
So it is with the body of Christ.
This means that we need to celebrate every gift within the body of Christ.
We shouldn't devalue the gifts of others because every member and their particular gifts are vital to the health and the growth of the church.
How many of you on a regular basis think about your appendix?
There's no hands.
Why?
Because it's a vestigial organ.
It's not used.
But how many of you think about it when it gets inflamed and bursts?
and we have to rush you to the hospital.
How many of us think on a regular basis about our gallbladder and what function it produces in the body, but it's there.
It does something.
It helps you with your body's processes.
And if it wasn't there, you would notice.
You would be on pills, you would be on a special diet, you would be on all these things.
And just like you might think your gift is insignificant,
It's irrelevant because we need you.
We need your gifting.
We need your heart.
I want you to think about it.
If a weight lifter only exercised one arm, that arm would grow strong while the other was weak.
So you'd have this guy who only ever lifted the one and you'd have this big old massive arm and then you'd just have this little puny thing that was all skinny and
Remember Popeye, anybody old enough to remember Popeye and he had his big arms and then when he would eat the spinach and they'd get real big and then the other times he was just kind of this little guy.
Again, I want to draw a parallel.
If one member of the body doesn't use their gifts, the body can't grow as it should.
If here at Berea Temple and we have this body laid out and we're growing and we're trying to put it back together and
All of a sudden we have one person over on this item, man, they're strong.
They're praying.
They're worshiping.
They're leading.
They're volunteering.
They're active.
And it's, oh, they're massive.
And then on the other side, the person who's supposed to be the counter will say arms.
They haven't even gotten plugged in yet.
They're like, I don't know.
I'm busy.
I got things to do.
I don't know if I can make it.
I don't know.
I'll talk to you later, Pastor.
We'll talk later.
Let me, let me, let me pray about it.
What's that mean?
That's your nice way to your pastor saying, I ain't doing it.
But I don't have the guts to tell you to your face that I'm not doing it.
And I'm going to hope
that you're gonna forget about it because you got so many other things going on, I'm gonna pray that you forget and six months from now, it'll just be a lost thought.
But again, when we talk about bringing the body, the body that is at Compton and Russell, that needs to come alive and stand up and be the voice in this part of the city, if we have the imbalance,
It'll never do what it's supposed to do.
It'll never become what it is supposed to become.
So I wanna leave you, I wanna give you another couple of questions here.
How can you encourage other members as they use their gifts?
You see it, I've approached a couple of you this week and I've talked to you about becoming involved in the life of the church.
But what about the rest of you?
Just, hey, you know what, brother, hey, sister?
I see you doing this.
Have you thought about talking to pastor, talking to the divisional leaders about the gifting that you have and getting plugged in somewhere?
Why do you think some members might hesitate to use their gifts?
Help us as a body.
Be part of the body and help us talk through those.
Come up with answers.
I'm not an expert.
I'm just, this is what I do for a living.
So I have answers, but I'll tell you right now, I don't have all the answers.
It's not possible.
I'm not the father.
But help us think through.
Again, as a quote from Rayner in his book, I'm the church member.
He says, with a country club membership, you pay others to do the work for you.
with church membership, everyone has a role or a function.
We are all different, but we are necessary parts of the whole.
So there used to be a mindset in the old days, I'm not gonna tell you how far back that was, because for some of us it was always still alive.
But in the old days, there was a mindset within the church that the preacher, the pastor, whatever you wanna call him, was the hired hand.
And his job was to kind of do whatever it was the church wanted in particular the board, wanted him to do and he just served as really a labor.
He was the hired voice and the board was in control.
Now I'm thankful that we have finally moved away from that because we don't see that as the biblical model.
But there was this mindset that
People would come to church, they would pay their, it's a T word, their tithes, except their mindset was, this was our membership dues.
I pay my dues every week.
And I expect the pastor to come and visit me.
I expect the pastor to call me.
If he doesn't call me, I'm gonna be mad because I need my, I wanna sing the songs in church that I like.
I don't wanna sing those new songs or those old songs, whichever the case may be.
I wanna be able to sit on my row because my family has been in this church for X number of years.
And this is my family's row.
We've always sat there.
We pay our dues to make that happen.
versus being a church member where everybody has a function and we bring our surplus, our tithe into the storehouse so that the church has the resources to continue to do the ministry that God has called us to do in this body at this time.
And so here's what I want to encourage us to do is I want us to embrace our differences
and work together for the glory of God.
Listen, in this room, watching online, there are people of varying religious backgrounds, some of you came from Catholicism, some of you came from Lutheranism, some of you may have come from different, what we would consider pagan or cult.
backgrounds.
Some of you have come from no faith background.
There are people of varying skin colors.
There are people of varying cultural aspects.
Even those, and again, I realize I'm saying something you already know, but even those within the same country, whether it's us here in the U.S., and I'm from California, and Sister Letitia's from what we would consider the South, or
Those of you that are from Africa and you're from different African nations and have different cultural backgrounds, it doesn't matter.
But we embrace who we are together.
We embrace what we are as the body of Christ that somewhere, somehow, we all fit into the body that is laying out here at Compton and Russell ready to be raised up so that God can use us as a whole.
Number three.
Membership means everything we say and do is based on a biblical foundation of love.
Many of us, of course, are familiar with the first Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter.
And everybody likes to quote it at Valentine's Day and at different anniversaries and things like that.
These verses are often read kind of out of context.
they're actually about how we should use our spiritual gifts within the church.
Paul writes these words to a church that's experiencing conflict over spiritual gifts, and he emphasized that love is the foundation of using our gifts.
1 Corinthians 13, verse one.
So this is the predicate, the foundation of the rest of
all the other list.
He says, if I could speak all the languages of earth and of angels, but didn't love others, I would only be a noisy gong or a clanging symbol.
Everyone knows somebody like that.
Man, they just seemed to know everything, but you just didn't like being around them.
Because it was just like, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang, clang.
I love you, but I gotta go.
If we don't love people, if we don't use our giftings, because we love those around us.
So again, we're gonna talk a lot about the body at the corner of Compton and Russell.
If this body stands up, if this body finds health and stands up and becomes a voice in the middle of this neighborhood,
And we're not doing it.
We've done it through too many medical shows, being on life support or having a tube down our throat or whatever it is, some artificial life-giving, life-keeping function.
And we're not doing it out of love.
Guess what our neighbors are going to hear?
Clang, clang, clang, clang, clang.
Because it's not going to match.
What we do, how we act outside the four walls of this church are a better representation of who Christ is in you and ultimately in this body than just this functional building or anything like that.
Without love, without loving people, our gifts are meaningless.
How many of us, please don't raise your hands because I really, this is a rhetorical question, but how many of us would be willing to walk out those doors, walk down to the end of the block, walk up about, I don't know, eight, nine, 10 blocks and grab one of the folks sitting on the corner by the bus stop.
Give him a big old hug and say, you know what, I am so sorry.
The Lord loves you and he sees you.
And I am so sorry that the world has treated you this way or that situations have caused you to be here.
But here's what I want you to know.
I want you to know that there's a Jesus who loves you.
And if you will turn your eyes towards him, if you will serve him, I know that he will find an answer for the situation you're going through.
I don't know.
It's a rhetorical question.
You have to answer that within your own heart.
Love has to be the foundation of everything that happens within this church.
Both good and hard.
When good things are happening, it's easy to smile and joy and greet each other with love.
Oh, brother or sister, God is good all the time.
But when things are difficult or we're hitting a difficult patch and they're going to come and go.
Being able to stop.
and know that when we speak to each other through difficult situations, it's done in love.
If I have to come to you as a pastor and tell you something that you don't particularly like, here's what I can tell you, there's not a person in this room or watching online that I don't love.
Listen, we may not see eye to eye, we may not always agree, we may not always find unity in what we're saying, but the fact that I am
your pastor and I do love you.
Hopefully the same is reciprocated back.
And when you tell me something difficult, I have to remind myself, they're coming from a place of love.
I need to hear what they're saying and try to figure out where the breakdown is.
And if we can come to an agreement, if we can find that foundation that everything that we do is done in love,
It's going to help us move forward.
It's going to help us get that body back up even that much faster.
It was love that caused Jesus to step on to the planet and to rescue us from our sin.
I'm not going to share it, but you know, John 3 16.
He reminded us that it will be love that distinguishes the church from the world.
If you look at John 13 35,
says your love for one another will prove the world to the world that you are to my disciples.
Do we do that?
Do we, we're a temple international church?
It's a rhetorical question.
Do we do that?
Do the people that we come in contact know that we are disciples of the Almighty because of how we love them?
Rainer has this quote, he says, we are not to love fellow church members just because they are lovable.
We are to love the unlovable as well.
We are to pray for and encourage our pastors even when they do things we don't like.
We are to serve the church even if we are alone in doing so.
So as we close out this part of two more questions.
Do you love the church and the people in it?
Does that love
Drive you to serve, give, and pray.
If not, can you really call it love?
If not, I might add that maybe this isn't the place for you.
Because what we do and how we do it has to be done in love.
Our last point.
church membership is functioning church membership.
This is the point of this particular message is that to be a member of a country club, you just pay your dues, but biblical church membership is different.
Rainer writes, this is our last quote, do you know how to remain a biblical member of a church?
Give abundantly and serve without hesitation.
You can be a member of a church and not do this, but you cannot be a biblical member of the church without giving abundantly and serving without hesitation.
Imagine with me if every member of our church gave abundantly and served without hesitation.
What would it take for that to happen?
Rainer has one final statement.
Says, the concept of an inactive church member is an oxymoron.
The concept of an inactive church member is an oxymoron.
So I want you to ask yourself again a rhetorical question, how can I best serve my church?
Better yet, are you willing to write the Lord a blank check and allow him to fill it out and to serve and to give whatever he writes?
Rainer closes each chapter of the book that we're kind of loosely basing our information on.
He ends it with a pledge.
This is what the pledge says.
It says, I am a church member.
I like the metaphor of membership.
It's not membership as in a civic organization or a country club.
It is the kind of membership given to us in 1 Corinthians 12.
It says, now you are the body of Christ and individual members of it.
Because I'm a member of the body of Christ, I must be a functioning member, whether I'm an I, an ear, or a hand.
As a functioning member, I will give, I will serve, I will minister, I will evangelize, I will study, I will seek to be a blessing to others.
I will remember what 1 Corinthians 1226 states that if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it.
If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
I want you to note though something as we're starting to wrap up.
Note that there's no pledge to a pastor, there's no pledge to a board or a leadership team.
This is a pledge as a member of the body.
of Christ.
It doesn't matter about the walls or the roof over us.
It doesn't matter who stands up here.
It doesn't matter what teams you're on.
We're talking about giving a pledge, making a commitment to be a member of the body of Christ.
So here's what I'm gonna ask you to do.
I know it's kind of silly.
But if you're willing to be a functioning church member, would you repeat this with me?
Pledge should be there for us to look at.
So if you're willing to say this with me, I'm just gonna read it and you can read it with me if you will.
It says, I am a church member.
I like the metaphor of membership.
It's not a membership as in a civic organization or a country club.
It is the kind of membership given to us in 1 Corinthians chapter 12.
Now you are the body of Christ and individual members of it.
Because I'm a member of the body of Christ, I must be a functioning member.
Whether I'm an eye, an ear, or a hand.
As a functioning member, I will give, I will serve, I will minister, I will evangelize, I will study.
I will seek to be a blessing to others.
I will remember that 1 Corinthians 1226 states, if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it.
If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
So here's what we're going to do in closing.
Being a functioning church member means recognizing that we're all necessary parts of the whole, we're all working together despite our differences, we're all operating from a foundation of love, and we're all committing to give and serve without hesitation.
So want us to strive to be this kind of church member.
the kind who build up the body of Christ, the kind who love and serve one another, and the kind who make a difference in our church and in our community.
We're going to do something a bit different as we close out our time together today.
And we're gonna respond to what we've heard in a bit different way than what we do traditionally.
Today, we're going to come together as a church body.
and we're gonna celebrate our differences and our uniquenesses and our unity in Christ by sharing around the Lord's table, remembering our Savior's sacrifice for all of us.
Now, of course, if you need prayer or you need to respond to Jesus, the altars are always open for that.
But as our ushers take their place and get ready to serve, I want us to pray.
Let's bow our heads.
Father, we thank you for making us part of the body of Christ.
Help us to be functioning members who serve, who give, and love as you have called us to.
Help us to find unity as the body of Christ.
We pray these things over this congregation, both here in person and those watching online.
It's in the name of Jesus we pray, amen.